docs/TILE_SYSTEM.md, before:

# Tile System Architecture

## Overview
The tile system is responsible for efficiently serving map data to clients. It uses a two-level caching strategy to balance performance and data freshness.

## Tile Generation
- Each tile covers a 64x64 world coordinate area
- Tiles are generated on-demand when first requested
- Generated tiles are stored in both the database and server cache
- **Optimization**: Tiles are only regenerated if their base points have changed, reducing unnecessary database writes and CPU usage

## Caching Strategy

### 1. Server-Side Cache (First Level)
- **TTL**: 10 seconds
- **Purpose**: Reduce database load and generation cost
- **Location**: In-memory cache (`tileCacheService`)
- **Invalidation**:
  - Automatic expiration after TTL
  - Manual invalidation when base points change
  - Server restart clears the cache

## Eventual Consistency

### Base Point Updates and Tile Regeneration
- When a base point is added or modified, the affected tiles are **not immediately regenerated**
- Tile updates follow an **eventually consistent** model with the following behavior:
  - The tile will be regenerated on the next request after the server cache expires (10 seconds)
  - The new base point will be included in the tile data after regeneration
  - This design was chosen to:
    - Prevent performance degradation during high write loads
    - Reduce database write contention
    - Maintain acceptable freshness guarantees for most use cases

> **Note**: If immediate tile updates are required after base point changes, manual cache invalidation should be implemented in the base point update flow.

### 2. Client-Side Cache (Second Level)
- **TTL**: 30 seconds
- **Purpose**: Reduce server requests
- **Location**: Browser's IndexedDB
- **Invalidation**:
  - Automatic expiration after TTL
  - Manual refresh by user
  - Version mismatch with server

## Cache Flow

1. **Cache Hit (Client)**
   ```
   Client: Tile in cache and fresh (<30s old)
   → Use cached tile
   ```

2. **Cache Miss (Client) → Cache Hit (Server)**
   ```
   Client: Tile missing or stale (>30s)
   → Request from server
   → Server: Tile in cache and fresh (<10s)
   → Return cached tile
   → Client updates cache
   ```

3. **Cache Miss (Both)**
   ```
   Client: Tile missing or stale (>30s)
   → Request from server
   → Server: Tile missing or stale (>10s)
   → Generate new tile
   → Update server cache
   → Return new tile
   → Client updates cache
   ```

## Performance Characteristics
- **First Request**: Full generation cost (slowest)
- **Subsequent Requests (within 10s)**: Served from server cache (fastest)
- **After 10s**: Served from database (fast)
- **After 30s**: Client requests fresh data

## Monitoring
- Check `fromCache` flag in API responses
- Monitor server logs for cache hit/miss metrics
- Track tile generation times

## Troubleshooting
- **Stale Data**: Check cache TTLs and invalidation logic
- **High Load**: Verify cache hit rates and consider adjusting TTLs
- **Memory Usage**: Monitor server memory with large numbers of unique tiles

## Future Improvements
- Implement cache warming for frequently accessed tiles
- Add distributed caching for horizontal scaling
- Add metrics for cache performance monitoring
- Consider progressive tile loading for better perceived performance

Commit message:

docs: clarify base point to tile relationship and remove manual invalidation

docs/TILE_SYSTEM.md, after:

# Tile System Architecture

## Overview
The tile system is responsible for efficiently serving map data to clients. It uses a two-level caching strategy to balance performance and data freshness.

## Tile Generation
- Each tile covers a 64x64 world coordinate area
- Tiles are generated on-demand when first requested
- Generated tiles are stored in both the database and server cache
- **Optimization**: Tiles are only regenerated if their base points have changed, reducing unnecessary database writes and CPU usage

## Caching Strategy

### 1. Server-Side Cache (First Level)
- **TTL**: 10 seconds
- **Purpose**: Reduce database load and generation cost
- **Location**: In-memory cache (`tileCacheService`)
- **Invalidation**:
  - Automatic expiration after TTL
  - Server restart clears the cache

## Eventual Consistency

### Base Point Updates and Tile Regeneration
- Each base point belongs to exactly one tile (based on its coordinates)
- When a base point is added or modified, the corresponding tile is regenerated on the next request
- The system uses an **eventually consistent** model where:
  - Tiles are only regenerated when their base points have changed
  - The 10-second cache TTL limits how long changes take to be visible
  - This approach was chosen to:
    - Minimize database writes
    - Reduce server load
    - Maintain good performance during high traffic

### 2. Client-Side Cache (Second Level)
- **TTL**: 30 seconds
- **Purpose**: Reduce server requests
- **Location**: Browser's IndexedDB
- **Invalidation**:
  - Automatic expiration after TTL
  - Manual refresh by user
  - Version mismatch with server

## Cache Flow

1. **Cache Hit (Client)**
   ```
   Client: Tile in cache and fresh (<30s old)
   → Use cached tile
   ```

2. **Cache Miss (Client) → Cache Hit (Server)**
   ```
   Client: Tile missing or stale (>30s)
   → Request from server
   → Server: Tile in cache and fresh (<10s)
   → Return cached tile
   → Client updates cache
   ```

3. **Cache Miss (Both)**
   ```
   Client: Tile missing or stale (>30s)
   → Request from server
   → Server: Tile missing or stale (>10s)
   → Generate new tile
   → Update server cache
   → Return new tile
   → Client updates cache
   ```

## Performance Characteristics
- **First Request**: Full generation cost (slowest)
- **Subsequent Requests (within 10s)**: Served from server cache (fastest)
- **After 10s**: Served from database (fast)
- **After 30s**: Client requests fresh data

## Monitoring
- Check `fromCache` flag in API responses
- Monitor server logs for cache hit/miss metrics
- Track tile generation times

## Troubleshooting
- **Stale Data**: Check cache TTLs and invalidation logic
- **High Load**: Verify cache hit rates and consider adjusting TTLs
- **Memory Usage**: Monitor server memory with large numbers of unique tiles

## Future Improvements
- Implement cache warming for frequently accessed tiles
- Add distributed caching for horizontal scaling
- Add metrics for cache performance monitoring
- Consider progressive tile loading for better perceived performance
